---
title: The Basilisk
date: 2024-11-16
npc_interactions: ["Gabrika Perphine", "Curse"]
participants: ["Fenris", "Freaky Carl", "Kalilia Crowdance", "Quill"]
---
The party is below deck, making plans on how to potentially kill Gabrika who turned out to have a side hustle as a slave owner. Suddenly, they feel Remorhaz shaking and as they make their way above deck to see what's going on, they see a giant sea creature stick its head up behind the railing. All crew members are frantically shooting at it with their hand crossbows, and they can see Gabrika controlling one of the crossbow turrets (ballistas). The sea worm rises up, and you can now see it in its full glory. The thin, elongated serpent seems to be at least 25 feet long, and has a disgusting, yellow skin. Its light blue eyes stare at you, and it opens its mouth to let out a deafening roar. The party can see its giant sharp teeth before it closes its mouth around the ship's mast. Kalilia recognises the creature as a Swavain Basilisk. She also realises that it's usually drawn to hunt and nest near the sites of shipwrecks.

The party initiates a fight against the basilisk, some shooting arrows, some shooting ballista bolts. Quill manages to hit the basilisk with three chromatic orbs, dealing large amounts of damage. Unfortunately, the crewmember Brannaril gets killed by the Basilisk in just two blows, but after a bit of struggle (such as almost being turned to stone), Kalilia manages to avenge the party's fallen ally and kill the basilisk. To honour Brannaril, but also the god Pelor, she performs a funeral ritual. While she does, she manages to pickpocket Brannaril's corpse, gaining a small amount of gold.

While she does, Curse cleans up the mess the basilisk caused. He throws the basilisk corpse into the water so that they can continue their journey. Fenris notices that Curse has something shiny in his hand, and tries to steal it. He is unfortunately not very sneaky, and just manages to brush his hand against Curse's, who takes it as a romantic hint. Curse becomes visibly uncomfortable with Fenris' actions, but Fenris tries to smooth it out by talking his way out of it. He offers Curse a pouch to put the ring in, and after a bit of hesitation he agrees to trust Fenris and puts the ring in the puch. When he does, Fenris gets to take a closer look at the ring, which has two gems embedded into it. He realises that the ring most likely has some kind of magical properties.